the instinct when you feel overwhelmed
is to actually do less but the other
secret solution is for you to be doing
more to take on more
study zero okay so let's talk about what
it means to feel overwhelmed so I want
you guys to think about
being overwhelmed so we have two kinds
of challenges in life one kind of
challenge is something that I call a
passive challenge which is a challenge
that we don't get to choose so passive
challenges happen to us
and
active challenges are the things that we
choose to do so passive challenges is
what life throws our way and active
challenges are what we what we kind of
throw it ourselves so if I decide that
you know I'm gonna like write a book one
day like I get up every day and I like
work on a book or let's use a real
example so I decided that I was gonna
start streaming and as I made the
decision to start streaming that's a lot
of work and in theory it should be
exhausting but in actuality like I find
it enjoyable and invigorating at the end
of it sure I'm tired but it's like a
challenge that I choose to take myself
and a passive challenge is like
something that happens to me like when
I'm prescribing a medication and the
insurance company denies it and then
like I have to spend hours with them on
the phone to try to get a patient of
mine a medication that they need that's
a passive challenge like I didn't choose
to do that it's a challenge that I have
to overcome that like life threw at me
and what I want you guys to understand
is that when you feel overwhelmed in
life there's a disconnect between your
passive challenges and your active
challenges when your passive challenges
outweigh your active challenges is when
you begin to feel overwhelmed so Lucy
was talking about a maze right and like
we feel overwhelmed because there's too
much going on and the funny thing though
is that the feeling of overwhelmed comes
from a discrepancy between active
challenges and passive challenge so when
life is throwing more at you not more
you than you can handle but more at you
than what you throw at yourself is is
when you feel overwhelmed so the
fascinating thing is that there are two
ways to stop feeling overwhelmed the the
what most people think is that I need to
life is throwing more at me that I need
to handle so I need to reduce the amount
that life is throwing at me right that's
one way to fix being overwhelmed and the
other thing to recognize about being
overwhelmed is people who feel
overwhelmed feel like they're not in
control of their destiny those two
things are synonymous being overwhelmed
is not being in control
the funny thing though is once you
understand this relationship between
passive and active challenges the other
thing that you can realize is the other
way to stop feeling overwhelmed is to
actually add active challenges to your
life is to bite on like choose more
things about your life that you want to
do and the crazy thing is that is you
start to do that your sense of feeling
overwhelmed starts to go away
and if you think about like what what
that's practically doing to your
psychology is you start to take control
over your life because if I say like
okay so I have a bunch of stuff I should
be doing right I have a private practice
I have academic work I'm trying to put
together a study I'm doing some
consulting work and so you and then
there's like all this insurance stuff I
have to do I have to do stuff around
licenses I have to pay parking tickets I
have to get my car registered life is
throwing a bunch of crap at me
and so the funny thing is when I feel
overwhelmed like one solution is to
actually choose something that I want to
do and just work on that and as I add
act of challenges to my life I start to
feel less overwhelmed even though I'm
doing more the instinct when you feel
overwhelmed is to actually do less but
the other secret solution is for you to
be doing more to take on more to start
to take control over something that you
get to choose in your life and when you
start taking on active challenges you
feel in control you start to feel
accomplished you start to feel good
about yourself and then you
automatically feel less overwhelmed it's
like a mathematical principle of
psychology
as we as our active challenges go away
we start to build up energy because
active challenges is one way that we
expend energy right if I decide that I'm
gonna start twitch streaming I'm gonna
feel exhausted in about 10 minutes but
it's a way in which I'm expending energy
and all anxiety is is unused energy so
as you adopt an active challenge you
start to expend energy and then your
mind has less energy left over for
anxiety and if we think about like what
is anxiety anxiety is just energy
bouncing around in your head it's just
thoughts bouncing around in your head
that never go away anxiety is a disorder
of excess mental energy those you adopt
active challenges you start spending
your energy you start to feel like
you're in control of things and then
like the feeling of going feeling
overwhelmed just goes away
and that's that's it
like the more you get control over your
life relates to like how much active
challenge you take on and the more
to challenge you take on like the less
overwhelmed you're going to feel
and I feel like I should keep talking
but that's it and it's simple
right so how do you actually get
yourself to actually do things so you
actually decide to do stuff
right so like Lord Ghoulia's is doing it
he started cleaning his room
guys remember like hooli has started to
feel better about himself when he
cleaned his room like why because before
he cleaned his room like life was
overwhelming right Ghoulia's that's
another way to describe like so we
talked about a lot of feelings but I
would say that you felt overwhelmed by
life and you felt less overwhelmed by
cleaning your room so how does that work
we can use the frame of passive and
active challenges
to to recognize that all it takes is for
you to expend energy and accomplish
something that you put your your mind to
to feel like you're less overwhelmed and
more in control and then everyone talks
about downward spirals and there's some
kind of like upward spiral too or if you
start taking care of you're gonna
be able to take care of way more
than you realize